So, that was the theory.
Now, to come back to our example project here,
let's say there we do indeed want to restructure
the HTML code a little bit.
And I wanna do that in a new branch
so that I can continue working on the old branch
without clashing with the other upcoming code changes.
To do that, we have to create a new branch.
Now this can be done by running Git Branch
and then the name of that new branch you want to create.
In my case here, I'll name it feature-restructure,
but the name is up to you.
It should be one word though.
And it's quite common to use all lowercase characters,
and separate multiple words with dashes.
So here it's feature-restructure.
And if I hit Enter, this branch was created.
You can View all branches,
you can get a list of all branches
that do exist in your Git Repository.
By running Git Branch without a branch name.
If you run it like this,
it simply lists all existing branches.
And here you see that we have the Main Branch
and the Feature Restructure Branch.
This command, Git Branch,
also shows you which branch is currently active.
So in which branch you're currently working.
It highlights that branch by coloring it
and adding this asterisk next to it.
So, here I'm still in the Main Branch,
I just created this branch here.
If we now want to work in that branch,
we have to Checkout that branch,
by using the Checkout command,
which we saw before.
Before, we used it with the Commit ID,
now we're using it with a Branch Name
to switch to that branch.
If I do that, you see that I switched to the branch,
and if I run Git Log there,
you see that we have the same Commits
as we do in the Main Branch, in this branch here.
This is also something that we can see up here,
where all the branches are listed.
So all these branches contain this Commit
and also the older commits here.
So now we got two branches that built up on the same commit.
There also is a different way
of creating that branch though,
which saves you this extra checkout step,
in case you know that you do want
to move to that new branch right away.
For that, I'll first of all
go back to the old Main Branch,
so that this is the active branch again.
And now, we can Delete the newly created branch
by running Git Branch -D,
and then specifying the name of the branch
that should be deleted.
So this Git Branch command can be used
for listing branches,
if you don't add anything else.
For creating a new branch,
if you specify the name of the new branch,
or for deleting a branch,
if you specify the name of the branch
that should be deleted,
and you also add the -D.
So, if a hit Enter here, this branch is deleted.
As you can also see if I list all branches.
And now a different way of creating a new branch
and automatically checking it out,
is to run Git Checkout -b
and then that branch name of the newly created branch.
So now with that, we create a branch
and check out that branch in one step.
As you can tell, if you run Git Branch, again,
it still is a branch that has all the commits
of the other branch.
So that's how you can work with Branches in general.
Now let's see how we can work
with Commits in those different branches.